U.S. Department of Justice 
Civil Rights Division 
Emplo)'lnen/ Litigation Section - -ICON 
950 Pennsylvania Ave. NW 
Washing/on DC 20530 
1i,11'11'.juslice govlcrtiemp 
July 10, 2025 
Via Electronic Mail 
Keith Ellison 
Attorney General of Minnesota 
445 Minnesota Street, Suite 600 
St. Paul, MN 55101 
Shireen Gandhi 
Temporary Commissioner, Minnesota Department of Human Services 
444 Lafayette Road North 
St. Paul, MN 55155 
Re: 
lnvestigation of the • mploymenl Practices of the tate of Minnesota Pursuant lo 
Section 707 of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as Amended 
Dear Attorney General Ellison: 
We are writing to inform you that the Department of Justice is opening an investigation to 
determine whether the State of Minnesota, including the Minnesota Department of Human 
Services, (Minnesota) is engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination based on race and sex 
in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 

§ 2000e, et seq. 
(Title VII). It is the responsibility of the Attorney General of the United States to enforce the 
provisions ofTitle VII with respect to state and local government employers. The Attorney General 
has delegated the authority to investigate compliance with these provisions to the Assistant 
Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. 
Title VII prohibits an employer from discriminating against an individual on the basis of 
race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. See 42 U.S .C. 

§ 2000e-2. When the Attorney General 
has reasonable cause to believe that a state or local government employer is engaged in a pattern 
or practice of discrimination in violation of Title VII, it is the Attorney General's responsibility to 
take appropriate action to eliminate that violation, including presenting the matter to the 
appropriate court for civil proceedings. See 42 U.S.C. 

§ 2000e-6(a). 
Our investigation is based on information that Minnesota may be engaged in certain 
employment practices that discriminate against employees, job applicants, and training program 
participants based on race and sex in violation of Title VII. Specifically, we have reason to believe 
the Minnesota Department of Human Services is engaging in unlawful action through, among 
other things, the adoption and forthcoming implementation of its "hiring justification" policy .1 
1 See Minnesota Department of Human Services, Hiring Justification (issued July 1, 2025), 
https://rnn.gov/dhs/assets/hiring justification 4100.250 tern 1053-694336.pdf. 
This policy purports to require "hiring supervisors" to provide a "hiring justification when seeking 
to hire a non-underrepresented candidate when hiring for a vacancy in a job category with 
underrepresentation."2 The policy defines "underrepresented candidates" to include "females," 
and racial "minorities" who are "Black, Hispanic, Asian or Pacific Islander," "American Indian or 
Alaskan native."3 Employees who fail to comply with this policy "may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination."4 This hiring justification policy appears to be just one 
component of a broader effort by Minnesota to engage in race- and sex-based employment 
practices pursuant to "affirmative action" objectives.5 Accordingly, I have authorized a full 
investigation to determine whether Minnesota is engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination 
as set forth above. 
We have not reached any conclusions about the subject matter of the investigation. We 
intend to consider all relevant information, and we welcome your assistance in helping to identify 
what that might be. We would appreciate your cooperation in our investigation. 
I have assigned Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Eric Sell to this investigation. 
Mr. Sell will be in contact with you shortly to set up a mutually agreeable date and time to discuss 
the parameters of this investigation, including the scope of information that we will be seeking 
from you. He may be reached by email at Eric.Sell@usdoj.gov. 
Thank you for your cooperation. 
n 
Assistant Attorney General 
Civil Rights Division 
cc: 
Eric A. Sell, Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division 
Ana Voss, Ci'vil Chief, Office of the United States Attorney, District of Minnesota 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
5 See MN Statute 43A. l 9; see also Minnesota Office of Management and Budget, "Affirmative 
Action," (last visited July 9, 2025), https://mn.gov/mmb/cmployee-relations/egual­
opportunity/ani rmati ve-action/. 
2