U.S. Department of Justice 
Civil Rights Division 
Employment Litigation Section - ./CON 
950 Pennsylvania Ave. NW 
Washington DC 20530 
11'11'1r.justice.govlcrtlemp 
July 17, 2025 
Via Electronic Mail 
Rector Charles "Cully" Stimson 
The Board of Visitors 
GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY 
Fairfax, Virginia 
c/o Mike Fragoso 
TORRIDON LAW 
Washington, D.C. 
mfragoso@torridonlaw.com 
Re: 
Investigation of the Employment Practices of Georee Mason Univer ity Pursuant 
to Section 707 of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. as Amended 
Dear Rector Stimson: 
The Department of Justice (Department) is opening an investigation to determine whether 
George Mason University (GMU) is engaged in a pattern or practice of discrimination based on 
race and sex in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 


§ 2000e, et seq. (Title VII). It is the responsibility of the Attorney General of the United States to 
enforce the provisions of Title VII with respect to state and local government employers. The 
Attorney General has delegated the authority to investigate compliance with these provisions to 
the Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. 
Title VII prohibits an employer from discriminating against an individual on the basis of 
race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. See 42 U.S.C. 

§ 2000e-2. When the Attorney General 
has reasonable cause to believe that a state or local government employer is engaged in a pattern 
or practice of discrimination in violation of Title VII, it is the Attorney General's responsibility to 
take appropriate action to eliminate that violation, including presenting the matter to the 
appropriate court for civil proceedings. See 42 U.S.C. 

§ 2000e-6(a). 
Our investigation is based on information that GMU may be engaged in employment 
practices that discriminate against employees, job applicants, and training program participants 
based on race and sex in violation of Title VII. Specifically, we have reason to believe that during 
Gregory Washington's tenure as president of GMU, race and sex have been motivating factors in